# 2-20-18

## Generalized Kuramoto Model

$\theta_i = \kappa \sum_{j \in N_i} \sin(\theta_j - \theta_i) + \omega_i$

-   Where $\theta_i$ and $\omega_i$ are phase and frequency of the oscillator, and $N_i$ is the neighborhood of $i$ in the network. 
-   This is a non-linear set of dynamics
    -   We can try to approximate using linearization
    -   In particular, let's linearize around the aligned state: $\theta_1 = \theta_2 = \theta_n$ which is the averaged phase

## Synchronization Examples

1.  Flocking of mobile agents equipped with sensing and communication to serve as a mobile sensor network.
    1.  Agents match velocity
    2.  Do it based on local adjustment relative to agesnts nearby.
2.  Computer network load balancing
3.  Sensor fusion (distributed)
    1.  Can pose various distributed inference porblmes as built on averaging

## Network of Agents with Dynamics

$x_i = u_i$ that want to reach consensus.

Via local communication with neighbors on $G=(V,E)$ 

_Concensus_ asympotically converges to a one-dimensional agent space

$x_1 = x_2 = … = x_n$ or $x = \alpha 1$ where $\alpha = \mathbb{R}$ is collective decision fo group.

Neighbors of agent $i$ is $N_i$, thus $N_i = \{j \in V:a_{ij} \neq 0\}$

Specifically consider these dynamics: $x_i(t) = \sum_{j\in N_i} a_{ij}(x_j(t) - x_i(t))$

This is a distributed consensus algorithm. With undirected graphs, we get $\alpha = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i}x_i(0)$, which means that the consensus value is average of the initial states.

### Analyze this System

Use the graph Lapacian matrix: $L = D-A$ where $D = \texttt{diag}(d_1,..,d_n)$ is the degree matrix of $G$ with elements $d_i = \sum_{j\neq i} a_{ij}$ and zero off-diagonal entries.

By definition, $L$ has a right eigenvector of $1$ associated with zero eigenvalue since $L1 = 0$.

$\dot{x}_i(t) = \sum_{j\in N_i} a_{ij}(x_j(t) - x_i(t))$ where $ \dot{x}= -Lx$. To make connection, use sum-of-squares property of the Laplacian. 

$x^T Lx = \frac{1}{2}\sum_{(i,j) \in E} a_{ij}(x_j - x_i)^2$

$=\frac{1}{2}\sum_{i = 1}^{n} \sum_{j = 1}^{n} a_{ij}(x_j - x_i)^2$

$=\sum_{i = 1}^{n} x_i^2 \sum a_ij - \sum_{i = 1}^{n} \sum_{j = 1}^{n} a_{ij}(x_j) (x_i)2 $

$=x^T (D - A)x = x^TLx$

By defining a quadratic disagreement function: $\psi(x) = \frac{1}{2}x^TLx$ one can see that $\dot{x}_i(t) = \sum_{j\in N_i} a_{ij}(x_j(t) - x_i(t))$ is $\dot{x} = -\nabla\psi(x)$ which is a gradient descent algorithm. This converges to the agreement space if:

1.  $L$ is a positive semidefinite matrix
2.  The only fixed point is $\alpha 1$ for some $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$

Both conditions hold for conneccted graphs from SOS property.  Let $\Delta = \texttt{max}(d_i)$. 

$0 = \lambda_1 = … \leq \lambda_n \leq 2\Delta$

For a connected graph: $\lambda_2 \gt 0$ is Called the _algebraic connectivity_. The corresponding eigenvector is called _Fiedler vector_. Thus a bigger $\lambda_2$ means faster convergence. 

### Consensus in discrete time

$x_i [k+1] = x_i[k] + \epsilon\sum_{j \in N_i} a_{ij}(x_j[k] - x_i[k])$

$x_i [k+1] = Px[k]$ where $P = I - \epsilon L$, and $\epsilon \gt 0$ is a step-size of algorithm. 

$P$ is called the _Perron matrix_ of the graph $G$ with parameter $\epsilon$. 

Note that $P$ and $L$ have the same eigenvectors. 

Let $\lambda_j$ be the $j$th eigenvalue of $L$, then, the $j$th eigenvalue of $P$ is $\mu_j = 1 - \epsilon\lambda_j$

This also converges to $\alpha = \frac{\sum x_i[0]}{n}$. To see fixed point property of agreement space: $\alpha[k+1] = \frac{1}{n} 1^T x[k+1] + \frac{1}{n}(1^TP) x[k] = \alpha[k]$ 

### More than one variable at each vertex $i$

$x_1^i, x_2^i$ such that they all obey the same equation.

$\frac{dx^2}{dt} = f(x_i) + \sum_j A_{ij}g(x^i, x^j)$

To understand stability near fixed point, linearize dynamics and $x^1 = x^0 + \epsilon^i$ through Taylor expansion.

Let:

$\alpha_{\mu v} = \frac{\partial f_\mu (x)}{\partial x_v}|_{x=x^0}$

$\beta_{\mu v} = \frac{\partial g_\mu (u,v)}{\partial u_v}|_{u,v=x^0}$

$\gamma_{\mu v} = \frac{\partial g_\mu (u,v)}{\partial v_v}|_{u,v=x^0}$

Then $\frac{d\epsilon}{dt} = M\epsilon$ where $M_{iu, jv} = \delta_{ij}\alpha_{\mu v} + \delta_{ij}k_i \beta_{\mu v} + A_{ij}\gamma_{\mu v}$





